By FELIX OLOYEDE Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Nigeria’s primary money market regulator,has decided to go tough on commercial banks and bureau de change operators as fresh pressure mounts on the local currency in the foreign exchange (FX) market. In order to ramp up liquidity in the foreign exchange market, the financialregulatorcompelled commercial lenders to sell forex to all travellers (customers and non-customers of the banks), threatening severe sanction against any bank that fails to comply with its directive. It also mandated bureau de change operators to compulsorily buy forex trice a week, otherwise, their licenses would be revoked. These directives were in responses to accusations that banks and bureau de change operators were hoarding forex in order to create artificial scarcity. The Central Bank Governor, Mr. Godwin Emefiele last week in Abuja led other officials to monitor banks’ compliance to the order that they sell Personal Travel Allowance (PAT) to those who need it across the counter. “The use of the word compulsory is not even a legal word and therefore, it has to be dropped from their new directives. “We have, however, written our complaints and concerns to the CBN management to put it on holdpending an engagement with them soon,” Alhaji Aminu Gwadabe, president, Association of Bureau de Change Operators of Nigeria (ABCON) told Business Hallmark in a Whatsappmessage. The naira has weakened marginally -0.13 per cent in the last one month to $/N360.97 at the Investors’ & Exporters’ Forex Window. It also declined -1.24 per cent to $/N366 at the parallel at the end of May. The CBN has expressed fears that expected huge liquidity injections in the course of the implementation of the 2018, increasing monthly FAAC injections and political spending in the run-off to the 2019 elections, would take toll on the naira. But Gwadabe attributed the spike in exchange rates to investors’ apathy at the stock market and the I&E forex window; political anxiety; renewed fictitious demand and capital flight. “The decision of the CBN is very inhibitive and will make the operations of the BDCs difficult and highly uncompetitive in the market,” the ABCON boss noted. The decision of the regulator to increase liquidity in the forex market was a pointer that the local currency would come under intense pressure as the country moves  closer to the 2019 general elections, explained Kunle Ezun, treasurer, Ecobank in an exclusive chat with Business Hallmark. “After the MPC meeting, we saw some pressure on the naira at the black market. Therate went up to as high as $/N367, which made them to respond. Although some of us expected it, but we never thought it would start that early. “Once the elections kick in properly, the CBN would be more strict with the usage of the naira as there would be more demand for dollars? What the CBN has done is to preempt what would happen in Q4,” he further enunciated. He believes the CBN wants to create more forex liquidity in the market so that people won’t have reasons to engage in panic buying, adding that it would also mop naira from the system. Nigeria’s foreign reserves risen 57 per cent to $47.6 billion on May 30, 2018 from $30.36 billion in the same period last year, buoyed by significant improvement in oil price, which hit $80 per barrel last month. The substantial growth in the country’s reserves has empowered the regulator to be able to further defend the naira. The apex bank commenced aggressive interventions in the forex market in February 2017, which the naira depreciated to $/N525 due to acute dollar scarcity in the country. It subsequently introduced the Nigerian Autonomous Foreign Exchange (NAFEX) Window in April 2017, which has ensured relative stability in the market. But the fresh pressure on the local currency is making the CBN to go hard on anybody seen to be disrupting the relative stability that the country’s forex market has enjoyed in the last one year. This is not the first time the regulator would be wielding its big stick as it suspended nine banks in August 2016 from dealing in foreign exchange transactions for failure to all outstanding Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) funds in their vaults into the Treasury Single Account(TSA). In May last year, the CBN also barred 14 commercial lenders from dealing in the Small and Medium Entreprises (SME) wholesale Forex window, because of allegation that they were intentionally frustrating SMEs from accessing forex from the SME wholesale Forex window. In the same vein, the apex bank had in January 2016 stooped weekly forex allocations to BDCs for allegedly aiding speculation against the naira, directing them to source their forex from autonomous sources.