The President of the Senate Dr Bukola Saraki has responded to the the request by the Nigerian Police urging him to explain his involvement with the Offa Robbery Suspects. Saraki who took to his twitter handle @BukolaSaraki, said that he had written to the Police as requested. The Police had announced on Sunday during a press briefing that the Nation’s number three citizen would be invited to explain his links to the suspects. According to the Police, five of the bandits arrested and who have made confessions during interrogations indicted the President of the Senate. The spokesperson of the POlice Mr Jimoh Moshood who briefed the press on Sunday, said: “The Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki is being invited by the Nigeria Police Force to report to the Force Intelligence Response Team office at Guzape, Abuja to answer to the allegations leveled against him from the confessions of the Five (5) Gang Leaders, namely; Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibukunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham, Salawudeen Azeez, Niyi Ogundiran and some of the other Seventeen (17) suspects arrested for direct involvement and active participation in the Offa Bank Robbery and the gruesome killing of 33 innocent persons which include some pregnant women and nine Police personnel”, Moshood said. However, in a dramatic turn of events, and after Saraki had denied any links with the bandits and announced his willingness answer the call, the Police then wrote the senator asking him to respond in writing instead. *What the five gang leaders confessed to the Police: * Ayoade Akinnibosun a.k.a AY ‘M’ 37Yrs – Gang Leader From Oro, Irepodun LGA, Kwara State. Confessed to have coordinated the Bank Robbery and the killing of Thirty Three (33) innocent persons during the bank robbery. * Ibikunle Ogunleye ‘M’ 36Yrs – Gang Leader from Oro, Irepodun LGA, Kwara State. Confessed to have killed Two (2) Persons during the bank robbery. *Adeola Abraham ‘M’ 35Yrs – Gang Leader from Oro, Irepodun LGA, Kwara State. Confessed to have killed Five (5) Persons during the bank robbery. *Salawudeen Azeez ‘M’ 49Yrs – Gang Leader from Oro, Irepodun LGA, Kwara State. Confessed to have killed Two (2) Persons during the bank robbery. *Niyi Ogundiran ‘M’ 37Yrs – Gang Leader from Oro, Irepodun LGA, Kwara State. Confessed to have killed Two (2) Persons during the bank robbery. The other 17 suspects volunteered confessional statements admitting their active participation in the robbery.