The second episode of Airtel Touching Lives (ATL) Season 4, which aired last Sunday, June 17, documented how Airtel literally touched the lives of the Olanrewaju Komolafe family; a family of five, battling with a streak of unending tragedies. The episode, which aired on Africa Magic Family, revealed how Olanrewaju Komolafe, a barber and commercial motor-cyclist, was involved in an accident that almost cost him his life. Although he survived, Komolafe had to spend a protracted period in the hospital as he had fractured bones and had also contracted Tuberculosis from a co-traveller. The accident also made it impossible for him to engage in strenuous physical activities, thus limiting his chances of providing for his family. “The accident damaged my shoulder joint, both of my hands and my neck bone. I didn’t have money to go to an orthopaedic surgeon; instead I had to use local means; they fixed it, but it wasn’t balanced. Since then, I’ve been unable to do any tedious work,” said a forlorn Olanrewaju. His wife, Adijat Komolafe, took over his responsibility as primary provider for the family. She took up a job as a labourer in an open market, helping shoppers to move goods, groceries and other items from one point to another. Unfortunately, in the course of her work, she had an accident – a sharp object tore through her legs, rendering her almost lifeless. She also couldn’t walk properly after receiving treatment. Aside their sudden disabilities and lack of financial resources, the couple also had a peculiar challenge: their three children had sickle cell disease. “The most painful thing regarding my children is that when we are in the room, one will say he wants to be a lawyer, another, a doctor and the other a soldier. “It is very painful and disheartening. If my children should get educated and reach their goal in life, I’ll be very happy. In the neighbourhood, we beg for money to eat, there is absolutely nothing, so I am pained a great deal”, Adijat said as she broke down in tears. “It is bitterness for me because I can’t carry the cross of these children, we need real help, myself and my husband really need help”, she added Mrs. Temitope Ayoola, their nominator, explained that the negative events keep coming and it has been very difficult to live above them. “The situation was bad before but it is becoming worse by the day, which is the reason I want help from other means,” Mrs. Ayoola said. With the provision of educational support to the children and a fully stored ultra-modern shop, all courtesy of Airtel, the Komolafe’s said a major burden had been taken off their necks as they sing praises and offer thanksgiving. A repeat broadcast of Episode 2 would be broadcasted on Africa Magic Urban from 10:00 – 10:30am on Wednesday, 20th June 2018 and on Africa Magic Family from 9:00 – 9:30am on Saturday, 23rd June 2018. Episode 3 of the TV programme would be shown on Africa Magic Urban from 6:30 – 7:00pm; on Arewa 24 TV from 7:00 – 7:30pm and on Africa Magic Family from 8:00 – 8:30pm all on Sunday, 24th June 2018. Through the Touching Lives programme, Airtel has been promoting the spirit of giving, self-sacrifice and love among Nigerians.