By OBINNA EZUGWU Last week, Ambassador Babagana Kingibe, the alleged master strategist of the Aso Rock cabal won himself and President Muhammadu Buhari criticisms for receiving the national honour of Grand Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (GCFR) despite “betraying” the Abiola mandate. But there is yet the speculation that the Kanuri, Borno State born politician is being fronted by Buhari’s men to succeed the president in 2023 and that partly informed his being so honored. The former Secretary to the Federal Government of the Federation, SGF, had caused a stir four months ago when his 2019 presidential posters flooded strategic positions in Abuja, the nation’s capital with inscriptions: “Sai Baba for President 2019,” leading to speculations about whether he is standing against Buhari for next year’s election. But a source close to the corridors of power in Abuja disclosed to BusinessHallmark that the move was not targeted at 2019, but 2023. The idea, according to the source who craved anonymity, is to put Kingibe in the picture for presidency ahead of the presidential election in 2023. He noted however, that the former SGF was seriously being considered as replacement for Buhari in 2019 when there was uncertainty around the president’s ability to continue beyond his first tenure due to ill-health. “Kingibe will not contest against Buhari in 2019, it’s certain,” the source said. “But 2023, yes, that’s a possibility and he is being prepared for that.” It is understood that the choice of Kingibe was informed by his demonstrated ability to protect the interest of the North, having been the key policy strategist of the Buhari administration. Again, he comes from the North Eastern part of the country which has not produced a president since the first Prime Minister, Alhaji Abubakar Tafawa Balewa and has been subtly clamouring for power for some time. Although the South West is bidding strongly for a return to power in 2023, BusinessHallmark had learnt that the North is only interested in retaining power in the region and would most likely opt for a candidate from the North East and a running mate from the South East, and Kingibe is the man being backed by the power brokers in Aso Rock for the project. The major concern in this regard, it was learnt, is the man’s age. Kingibe who served as SGF under President Umaru Musa Ya’Adua before being sacked for disloyalty, was born in 1945, and would be 78 in 2023. He had also served as National Chairman of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) before being picked as running mate by the party’s presidential candidate for the 1993 presidential election, Chief MKO Abiola, and is believed to have been a prominent member of Buhari’s kitchen cabinet – the brain behind the president’s strategic policies despite not holding a position in the governmentHe was also a former career diplomat and reputed to be a spy master. Kingibe’s standing in the administration first came to limelight in July 16, 2016.  The country’s Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo was scheduled to lead a Nigerian delegation to the 27th Ordinary Session of the Assembly of the African Union (AU) scheduled for Kigali, Rwanda and in his capacity as the second highest official in the country, was preparing to represent President Muhammadu Buhari at the event, but along the line, Kingibe showed up as part of the delegation and controversy ensued over who, between him and Osinbajo, should lead the presidential delegation to the AU summit. Although it was obvious, and only constitutionally right that in the absence of the president, the vice president naturally steps into his shoes, Kingibe immediately assumed leadership of the delegation staring a bit of controversy. However, after series of contemplations, words were sent to Buhari and in the end, Osibanjo was given the nod to speak for the president because it would have been absurd to do otherwise, especially considering that Kingibe does not hold any office per say. Nonetheless, the episode helped to underline his influence in the administration. He is said to be the brain behind most of the decisions of the president especially as it concerns state policy, and on one or two occasions, he has stepped in for the president. It was him who led a Nigerian team to the United States to seek the American government’s support in the areas of security and economy, and is, in fact, at the forefront of recent rapport between the US and Northern Nigeria. Again, upon the death of HID Awolowo, it was still Kingibe who led presidential team on a condolence visit to the family of the Awolowos. Kingibe, on June 12, 2018, became the greatest beneficiary of the unfortunate annulment of June 12, 1993 presidential election adjudged to have been won by the late MKO Abiola when he stepped onto the podium to receive the second highest national honour in the land, being the only one of the three awardees still alive, despite, having, in many people’s reckoning, betrayed the Abiola mandate when he conveniently defected to the General Sani Abacha military junta and served as Minister of Foreign Affairs. The idea of President Muhammadu Buhari naming Kingibe as one of the awardees, alongside Abiola himself who got the highest national honour of Grand Commander of the Order of the Federal Republic (GCFR) posthumously, and the late Human Rights lawyer, Chief Gani Fawehinmi who was also posthumously awarded GCON, had generated negative reactions from those who insist that he could not have been honoured for a mandate he betrayed. “I don’t understand why anybody who was familiar with that election will honour Abiola and Kingibe, who is a traitor never known to be loyal to anybody than himself, former lawmaker, Dr. Junaid Mohammed was quoted to have said. “As we speak, Kingibe is an employee of the Presidency and he is part of the cabal, so this is sinister because 2019 is around the corner. Buhari has been in power since 2015, he didn’t remember to rectify an injustice but only now that elections are coming that he remembered to do so, he should be ashamed of himself.” Also making similar point in an address in Enugu, Former Director General of National Orientation Agency (NOA), Alhaji Idi Farouk noted: “I have a little problem with the award of the GCFR and GCON. I have no problem with Abiola, but Kingibe being given GCON is like he is benefitting from where he did not sow. Kingibe himself jumped ship, he was given Minister of Interior, so he cannot be said to have stood by June 12 and his principal until the very end. “NRC was not for June 12. I was in NRC, I was the national director of organization and in every contest, whatever parties you belong to you want to win. And therefore, when it (June 12) was annulled, we were preparing for the run-off, if it was going to hold, so my party then really wasn’t for June 12. “I think Kingibe was on the side of those working against June 12. So I really don’t know why he can, at this point in time, be given the award he was given.” However, Dr. Jonathan Zwingina who served as the Director General of Abiola Campaign Organisation, dubbed Hope 93, said Kingibe only accepted to serve under Abacha because he believed the late dictator was interested in upholding the June 12 mandate of Abiola. Born on June 25, 1945 to the family of Mustafa Shuwa and Ya Kingi Mallam, Kingibe grew up Maiduguri Borno State where he had his early education. In 1958, he got admission into the Borno Provincial Secondary School, but soon left for London in 1960 where he completed his secondary school education at Bishop Stortford College under a Borno Native Authority sponsored scholarship scheme. He took up further studies earning a Bachelor of Arts degree in International Relations at the University of Sussex. Afterwards, he made an unsuccessful attempt to obtain a doctorate degree in Switzerland before returning to Nigeria to take up employment as a Research and Planning Officer at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria. He later left the school to become the head of Features and Current Affairs Department at the Broadcasting Corporation of Northern Nigeria. In 1972, he joined the Nigerian Foreign Service where he started work as a senior counselor and later became the head of the political desk at the Nigerian High Commission in London. He joined politics full time in the third republic and was made director of organization of the People’s Front of Nigeria (PFN) which was then led by Gen. Shehu Musa Yar’Adua in 1988. The PFN later joined Social Democratic Party (SDP) in 1989. During the conduct of elections for national executive positions in the party, he was backed by the PFN faction of SDP to emerge the party’s chairman. As SDP chairman, Kingibe was involved in the organization of party’s gubernatorial and presidential primaries in 1991 and 1992 respectively. After the cancellations of presidential elections in 1992 in which Shehu Yar’Adua was a candidate, he put himself forward as a presidential candidate but eventually lost in the primary election to MKO Abiola who later selected him as his running mate. The duo won the electoral majority although the result was annulled by the then military president, Ibrahim Babangida. When General Sani Abacha took office as head of State in 1993, he was named Foreign Affairs Minister, a post he held until 1995. He also served as Minister of Internal Affairs, Minister of Power and Steel, Nigeria’s Ambassador to Greece and Pakistan. In June 2007, he was appointed Secretary to the Federal Government of Nigeria by late president Umaru Yar’Adua but was abruptly removed from office on September 8, 2008 after spreading rumors about the President’s ill-health. ‎In November last year, Buhari appointed him to head a panel to “Review operational, technical and administrative structure” of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), in the aftermath of the $43 million of the agency found in a Lagos apartment.