By FELIX OLOYEDE In a swift reaction to the allegedly unfounded stories making the rounds that Nigeria’s Supreme Court recently instructed Guaranty Trust Bank (GTB) to pay one of its customers Messrs Innoson Nigeria Limited, N14billion as judgment debt, the bank has stated clearly that no such court order has been made and that the matter in question was still before the apex court. The bank described as false the purported claim by spokespersons for Innoson that the Supreme Court ordered it to pay the money, which was allegedly deducted from its account. The fact of the matter according to those close to the issue is that the Supreme Court has required that GT Bank set aside a sum specific to the tune of N14billion pending the eventual determination of the case by the court. The amount in question would be lodged in a trustee account, pending the determination of the substantive case. This, according to legal practitioners, is a standard practice in a case of this nature and does not constitute judgment against the bank as some people had erroneously speculated. “There was no directive or Order issued by the Supreme Court of Nigeria to the Bank to make any payment to any of its debtor Customers.’’ The bank said in a recent statement. The Bank went on to observe that, “ as a highly responsible corporate citizen in accordance with its culture and tradition it will refrain from making comments about an on-going litigation matter and will continue to focus on using legal means to recover its bad debts. It must be emphasised that the Bank remains undeterred in its recovery drive against recalcitrant debtors,” the bank said in a release signed by its Company Secretary, Erhi Obebeduo. It noted that there was no iota of truth in the claim that there was a judgement debt order in favour of any of its customers, adding that it appeared that desperate and mischievous people were unfortunately bent on misleading the public. GTB and Innoson Nigeria have been in a legal scuffle over alleged overcharges on a loan the former obtained from the bank. Meanwhile the bank has assured that it will continue to prioritize top-notch services to its legion of prized customers. The banks operating records have remained impressive. The lender increased profit after tax by 7.7 percent to N44.7 billion from N41.5 billion achieved in the corresponding period of 2016. It also, recorded a 4.4 percent rise in its profit before tax, which was N52.6 billion in Q1 2018 against N50.4 billion in Q1 2017. Its financial statement reveals that net interest income in the first three months of this year was N59.7 billion in contrast to N66.1 billion achieved in the first three months of 2017. While net fee and commission income stood at N14.5 billion in the period under review compared with N13.1 billion in the corresponding period of 2017, total of assets as at March 31, 2018 stood at N3.5 trillion versus N3.4 trillion as at December 31, 2017. The Earnings Per Share (EPS) in Q1 2018 was N1.58k against N1.47k in Q1 2017. Subsequently, the bank has assured stakeholders of better performance and yields in the short and long term ahead of close of business in 2018. GT Bank, therefore, expect that its gross earnings in 2018 should rise to N205 billion with a loans and advances growth of about 10 per cent. The bank also plans to increase its liquidity ratio to 47 per cent or 17 per cent higher than the officially required rate of 30 per cent while the bank also hopes to keep its capital adequacy ratio at about 22 per cent. In line with an industry-wide drive to reduce operating expenses GT Bank’s managers are keen on seeing the bank’s cost-to-income ratio nestling at a comfortable 40 per cent. Group Managing Director of the bank, Mr. Segun Agbaje had said the projections were conservative as the bank possesses the ability to out-perform the targets. Agbaje who noted that the economy was still fragile with a GDP growth of 1.95 per cent, explained that the year 2018 would be tough for business entities, including banks, but would still provide room for corporate growth.