By TESLIM SHITTA-BEY Even at the best of times the job of Nigeria’s minister of finance has been thankless, tough and a dangerous. A delicate balance between pragmatism and idealism. Current minister, Kemi Adeosun, is finding this out the hard way. Recently on the heels of worries about the slow pace of growth of the economy (Nigeria’s economy has been reportedby the National Statistical Bureau (NBS) to have grown by a forgettable 1.95 per cent in April) the minister hurriedly arranged a press briefingto explain (or at least tried to)how government has made appreciable economicgains over the last three years. The narrative wassyrupy and coated in excellent English, but belaboured the point of poor growth.Indeed, towering unemployment (estimated at 26 per cent), falling consumer demand and slower manufacturing sector growth rate has put Adeosuns economic credentials on the scales. So far, the minister’s performance has proved mixed. For example, recent macroeconomic (or broad economic) indices have been way off the mark in respect of the country’s targeted medium term financial framework. Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth for 2017 was expected to trail around a promising3 per cent but ended up at a far stingier 1.9 per cent or 37 per cent belowofficial projections. GDP growth for 2018 was estimated to be in the region of 3.5 per cent but so far it has settled at a pallid 1.95 per cent by April. Going forward analysts see GDP rising to a lazy 2.3 per cent for the year. ‘’If the economy grows faster than this’’, notes Madeline Chukwuma Forte Investment and Trust’s head of portfolio management, ‘’ we can throw our hands up in the air and sing a Hallelujah chorus. But of course, this is as far-off as sighting a dodo’’. Chukwuma is not the only one with dark worries over slow growth in 2018, Segun Atere head of research at Apel Assets and Trust, equally has deep reservations about a leap in domestic output. According to Atere, ‘’while it is true that the fiscal authorities have released huge sums as capital expenditure in the last half year (N1.5trillion), the impact has been muted. Size and strength are not the same kind of animals, the finance ministry seems to be emphasizing size over impact. Nigerians think the order should be reversed’’. Atere’s opinion highlights growing concern amongst locals that the government is more concerned with how its fiscal expenditure ‘looks’ rather than how it ‘performs’.According to Maryam IshayaofGanduniya Finance, ‘the fiscal arithmetic doesn’t seem to add up. Fiscal expansion should lead to an increase in domestic output and a faster paced growth, especially with over N1.5 trillion spent on capital projects in the last nine months.’’ Says Ishaya, ‘’the sounds of earth movers and cranes have been quieter than the sounds of public officer’sclaims about the size of fiscal spending’, she notes dryly.Ishaya’s observation is a widely shared bylocal economists, who note that government’s budgetary expenditure has had little, if any,knock-on effects on the economy. The various multipliers (in other words factors that increase the impact of policy on the economy) do not seem to have been strong enough to create new economic activities and freshjobs to lighten the burden of recovery. Indeed, according to analysts, the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) countervailing policy used to douse inflation have rendered fiscal policy (public expenditure) ineffective. But apart from growth Adeosun has insisted that the government has done a credible job of pinching pennies by reducing leakages and closing loopholes hitherto used by public officers to pilfer the treasury. On the bright side this is true. The government has been able to save a staggering N208 billion in two years by weeding out ghost workers and reducing duplication and wastage in the requisition and use of public resources. Many analysts concede this to be a major win for the Abuja paper shufflers and bean counters. Nevertheless,a backflip to the darker side of the performance sheet shows that savings from tighter administrative audits and firmer budgetary pull backs have not been felt where Nigerians would like to see them most,especially in the areas of increased education spending, expanded road construction, better power generation and improvement in the quality of healthcare services.Says Dr Oke, ‘’the healthcaresector, for example, is in shambles, we are in a state of existential distress, for those that can fly abroad this may be just a slight inconvenience but for those at the lower wrung of society it is a disaster in dirty technicolour.You could say that these are times that fantastically try men’s souls’’ he observes. Indeed,the joint healthcare workers association, JOHESU, have only recently called off a forty-day strike that has sincecost the nation several lives and left the sector prostrate. Sectoral weaknesses remain thorns in the governments rib cage. The education sector, for instance, is one of the most underfunded in Nigeria with 7 per cent of the 2018 budget being allocated to the sector. This contrasts markedly with other West African Countries with countries such as Ghana allocating 20.98 per cent, Togo 15.99 per cent, Benin Republic 17.45 per cent, Sierra Leone 15.09 per cent and Cote d’Ivoire 21.17 per cent to the sector. The low commitment of the government to education, not surprisingly, prompted Bill Gates, the world’s richest man, on a recent private visit to the country to urge the federal government to ramp up human capital development as a critical part of its governance objectives. Gates noted that, ‘‘roads,ports and factories without skilled workers to build and manage them can’t sustain an economy’’. Adeosun would quickly rebut that thepoor budgetary allocation to the healthcare and education sectorswas the result ofrevenue constraints. But that would be both convenient and unconvincing note public sector economists. Localanalystslargely agree that the first principles of economics assume that resources are scarce, therefore, pricing and quantity of Nigerian goods consumed and supplied are a function of the availability of domestic resources and their competing uses.The use of resources, according to these fiscal policy observers,is critically dependent on government preferences. ‘’Therefore, governments insistence on scarcity of funds is clever by half’’ saysApel Asset and Trust’s Atere,’’ funds will always be scarce relative to needs. What is crucial is how the funds are allocated to generate future earnings through value creation. It is not the size of a dog in a fight that counts but the size of the fight in the dog. If you want to get things done right, you simply adopt the right attitude’’ he insists.  This point may be especially valid when it is realized that the Nigerian state has sunk undisclosed billions of naira in an endless (and so far,fruitless) search for oil in the Tchad basin and Sokoto state. A number of economists believe that the money spent on these ventures may have been more productively deployed to both the education and healthcare sectors while the country continued to diversify away from a dominant crude oil-based monocultural economy. Gaduniya Finance’s Ishaya points out that, ‘’you have got to have an efficiently run economy to have a productive one too. The public sector needs to stick to what it knows how to do best and that is certainly not the art and craft of business. What it needs to do is to provide a conducive environment for private sectorenterprise. At the hearty of the matter is infrastructure, infrastructure and more infrastructure’’. So far, despite rigorous efforts by the vice president, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, to see the economy gain better legroom for growth, progress has been slow. Fiscal deficit has run amok as the country now spends a thumping 33 per cent of its revenue (or two thirds of its tax revenue) on debt service with its current total debt stock exceeding N21 trillion or about two and a half times the total 2018 budget. Many domestic analysts have cautioned that though as a proportion of GDP Nigeria’s debt stock was less than 25 per cent (or lower than the 35 per cent International Monetary Fund (IMF) early warning threshold), debt service challenges were still real. The minister’s optimism in this regard has been construed as charming but naïve. The ability to cover payments due in recent months has been more a function of fortune (oil prices have risen strikingly over the last six months) than brilliant fiscal action. But crude oil prices may slide over the next few weeks, and perhaps months, as major oil exporters, particularly Russia and Saudi Arabia, increase output to pull down prices from $80 per barrel to a less worrisome $70 per barrel. A downward trending oil market price could hurt fiscal comfort in months ahead. Adeosun may not have done too poorly in the book keeping department of her duties but in terms of broad policy direction and impact analysts are still circumspect about her capacity and clout. The fiscal tap has not started wetting the economic soil and the expectations of citizens are still majorly drowned by high interest rates (average prime lending rates still hover at 17 per cent), falling employment rates (unemployment for those between 18 and 45 stubs at a staggering 46 per cent) and a steep decline in consumer spending create a dangerous alchemy of factors that make the Nigerian economy look horribly fragile. The Nigerian All Share Index (ASI), the principal stock market board, has already posted its first negative yield for the year, declining by -3.36 per cent at last week Friday’s trading.  If this kind of performance continues in months ahead not only will prickly foreign investors make a dash for the door, even local market mavens will take a prime seat on the next available bus out of town. For Adeosun, the auguries seem somewhat dimmer heading into the 2019 election cycle.