…NPLs likely to drop By FELIX OLOYEDE The recent rise in International oil prices has bumped up banker’s optimism in the reversal of their previous misfortunes resulting from large loan exposures to Nigeria’s Oil and Gas sector. Bankers, in growing numbers, are beginning to express considerable faith in a decline in their non-performing Oil sector loans as mid-size oil producers begin to see stronger gross earnings and improved margins on their export sales. Banks with oversized exposure to theOil and Gas and Energy sectors have been battling with high non-performing loans (NPLs) following acrash in oil priceswhich plunged to $27 per barrel in February 2017, causing the banking industry to burn in a stream of toxic assets withtheir average NPL ratiosrising to a staggering 15 per cent as against the 5 per cent threshold set by the industry regulator, the Central Bank (CBN). Nevertheless, after the country escaped a16-month recession by June 2017, average bank NPL ratios moderated to 13 per cent. With Oil prices rebounding strongly Oil sector analystshave expressed hope for commercial lenders as oil price have so far appreciated 58 per cent in the last one year to $75.87 per barrel on Thursday andSeplat Petroleum Development Company Plc.  has seen its stock price ballooned 92 per cent in the last one year, reflecting the positive change in the fortunes of firms in the country’s upstream sector.  Interestingly, global average oil price forecastfor 2018 has been pegged at $65 per barrel. Things are looking up for banks with exposures to the oil and gas sector if current price trends continue, argues Moses Ojo, Head, Research and Business Development, PanAfrican Capital Plc in a telephone conversation with Business Hallmark last week. “With oil price appreciating, banks that are exposed to the upstream sector of the oil and gas industry are bound to make some recoveries. But we will able to see how far this development has impacted their NPL when half year results are released,” he noted. FirstBank which has one of the highest exposures to the oil and gas sector with 38.2 per cent of its total assets of N1.78 trillion being exposed to Oil and Gaswhile  54.5 per cent of its delinquent assets equally came from this sector during the first quarter of 2018. Its NPLs in the oil and gas sector was flat between the end of 2017 and the first three months of this year, but the parent company, FBN Holdings has succeeded in trimming down total NPL ratio to 21.5 per cent from 26 per cent in the first quarter of last year on the back of an uptick in economic activities and the group’s deliberate decision to lower its risk appetite. Operators in the upstream sector have been the major beneficiaries of the rising oil price, explained Mr. Johnson Chukwu, Managing Director, Cowry Assets Management Company Ltd, adding banks that are exposed to this sub-sector of the oil industry are well positioned to cut down their NPLs because operators are now earning revenues that are above their cost of production. “Banks that are exposed to companies in the upstream sector of the oil industry are in a position to reduce their non-performing loans. But the downstream operators’ fortune has actually worsened. Because of price cap that government has placed on PMS, many of these companies are not in a position to import petrol.  They now depend on allocations from DPR, which has made their turnover to decline and their margins thinned out. The downstream operators are worse off as a result of the increase in oil prices,” he elucidated. Chukwu posited that lenders who are exposed to the upstream sector would have a reasonable level of recovery at the end of the year, but those with huge risk assets in the downstream sector would not see their fortunes change materially. Many commercial lenders invested in the oil and gas sector without proper understanding of the dynamics of the industry, which caused them to take serious hit when oil prices plummeted, said Prince AghatiseErediauwa, Executive Director, Operations, Nigeria Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) recently. But Mr. Abubakar Suleiman, Managing Director, Sterling Bank, claimed banks have built capacities in the sectors they now finance. Worried by the high level of toxic assets in the banking industry, the regulator earlier in the year barred lenders whose NPLs were above the 5 per cent benchmark and capital adequacy ratio fell below the 10 per cent or 15 per cent threshold as the case may be from paying dividends to the shareholders. Unity Bank, Wema Bank and Union Banks were the only listed commercial lenders that did not pay dividends in the 2017 financial years. And to curtail their rising NPLs, many banks decided to lower their risk appetites, which resulted in the decline of their loans and advances in the first three months of 2018. Meanwhile, Ayodele Akinwunmi, Head, Research, FSDH Merchant Bank,believes banks would take advantage of growth in the mining and quarrying, agriculture, manufacturing, trade, and information and communication sectors to improve their loan books in the second half of the year. He noted that “the expected growth in government spending in the second half of the year, once the 2018 budget has been signed into law, should increase economic activities, with positive impacts on the income of households and firms.” Commercial lenders would also explore the expected yield increment in the bond market, especially with the Federal Government planning to raise N1.01 trillion from the domestic market to finance the 2018 budget.