…It’s an attempt to conquer Nigeria – IYM By OBINNA EZUGWU The move by the President Muhammadu Buhari led federal government to establish what it called cattle ranches in 10 states of the federation as pilot schemes in an attempt to tackle the perennial clashes between herdsmen and farmers has continued to witness stiff resistance by various Southern and Middle Belt groups who say there are ulterior motives behind the move, even as many continue to wonder why federal government should fund the private business of cattle rearing. The proposed plan, tagged ‘The National Livestock Transformation Plan,’ was unveiled on Tuesday last week by Mr. Andrew Kwasari, Technical Adviser to the National Economic Council (NEC). Presenting the plan, Kwasari noted that “A Ranch Design Plan has also been proposed in models of various sizes clustered in 94 locations in the 10 pilot states. The government intends to transition pastoralism to ranching in order to reduce the struggle for common resources.” The size models he said, will constitute “Cluster 30, 60, 150 and 300 cows ranch models in a location within the donated gazetted grazing reserves; and “a minimum 1000 cows breeder ranch in seven of the 10 pilot states.” He disclosed further that “Total spending over the 10 year period is slightly in excess of N179 billion. “FGN-States funding is meant for the first three years in the pilot phase, totaling about N70 billion.” The affected states include: Adamawa, Benue, Ebonyi, Edo, Kaduna, Nassarawa, Oyo, Plateau, Taraba and Zamfara. But it’s a plan that has not gone down well with many individuals and groups who see it as a “continuing attempt by the federal government to dispossess communities of ancestral lands with the intention of handling them over to the Fulani,” especially because it’s coming after previous attempts to introduce grazing reserves and cattle colonies were resisted by Nigerians. Reacting to the decision, Igbo Youth Movement (IYM) accused the Buhari administration of pursuing a “caliphate agenda to conquer and subdue the rest of Nigeria.” “The caliphate agenda is being pursued vigorously by the Buhari government, which was why he struggled four times to come to power,” said Evangelist Elliot Uko, President and founder of the movement. “The caliphate agenda to conquer, subdue and dominate is his driving force. Those who do not know that are only naive. He doesn’t hide it; few months after he came to power, he tried to erase the Christian Religious Knowledge curriculum in our schools by merging it with Islamic studies. “He made sure that police recruitment exam had Arabic Language. His government has been defending the murderous herdsmen, if they are not saying they are Libyans, they are saying that they are thugs sponsored by politicians. “The Defence Minister has become the spokesperson for the herdsmen. So, it is clear that Buhari has come to conquer, to dominate and subjugate the rest of Nigeria under caliphate domination, but you and I know that it is not possible.” Evangelist Uko wondered why proceeds from crude oil should be used to fund private businesses of individuals whose record of tax payment does not exist anywhere. “How can he use proceeds from oil in Eastern Nigeria to build ranches for private Fulani business men? Why can’t state governments build the ranches and the Fulani business men would repay them with time?” he queried. “Why would Buhari use proceeds from oil to go and do ranches, and he is insisting on building them in so many states, including Ebonyi State. Why can’t he go to the core North where the cattle owners are and do the ranches? He should concentrate the ranches in the far North, with state governments funding it so that when the cattle are ready to be sold, they will shift them from there through rail or road. That’s how it is done all over the world,” he concluded. Also rejecting the move the Yoruba Council of Youths Worldwide (YCYW) through its founder and president, Aremo (Barr) Oladotun Hassan described it as an attempt to actualise grazing reserves through the backdoor and called on Nigerians to resist it. “They are hell bent on actualizing that, and its most dangerous to our Democracy,” Hassan said. The attempt had also drawn reactions from Southern and Middle Belt Leaders Forum (SMBLF), the Ohanaeze Ndigbo and the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The SMBLF which comprises Ohanaeze, Afenifere, Pan Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) and the Middle Belt Forum, said in a statement jointly signed by Senator Bassey Henshaw, Yinka Odumakin, Prof Chigozie Ogbu and Dr. Isuwa Dogo last week, that they object to government’s decision to spend public funds to build ranches and advised government to adopt recommendations of the 2014 National Conference. “We commend the coming to terms with modernisation by the Federal Government, in embracing ranching for cattle rearers, against the erstwhile insistence on archaic open grazing and century old cattle routes,” the group said. “The 2014 National Conference had reasoned out this matter and recommended ranching as it is done in all civilized societies. “The decision to ignore this sensible recommendation has led to a situation where untold terror has been unleashed on farming communities with needles loss of hundreds of lives in the last three years with not a soul under prosecution and top functionaries of the administration making excuses for the killers. “We, however, object to the federal government’s decision to spend N179 billion of public funds to build these ranches over 10 years starting with N70 billion under this administration.” The Forum emphasised that it was wrong for the government to expend public funds on private business. “Cattle rearing is private business in which individuals make billions of naira with no record of what they pay as taxes and, it is unfortunate that the federal government is making this vexatious declaration while receiving the Chief Executive Officer of Friesland Campina of Netherlands without bothering to find out that it was put together by cooperatives, with roots going back to 1879 and is one of the world’s top five dairy companies with annual revenue of 11 billion Euro. “It is only reasonable that those who want to engage in the business should approach the states where they want to build ranches and acquire land to build such with firm commitment to abide by the rules of host communities. Rewarding the herders with public funds to build ranches would only mean that they have killed enough to beat the country into pacification mood and this can only encourage other people to arm themselves and cause sufficient killings to get undue concession. “What would our society become if fishermen, farmers and people in other trades begin to cause bloodbath so the federal government could give them special consideration? “We call on the federal government to shelve the idea of committing public funds on ranches and allow the owners of the business to attend to their business needs in the spirit of “I belong to everybody” mantra of the president. “To go ahead with the plan is to say that cattle owners own this government and that would make other segments of society to say ‘we have no inheritance in this arrangement.'” Meanwhile, the Ebonyi State governor, Engr. Dave Umahi, has come under intense criticism from indigenes of the state who wonder why he should be the only governor in the South East to accept to cede state lands to the federal government for such project. Condemning what he called an attempt by Umahi to cede people’s patrimony, Catholic clergy and activist, Rev Fr. Uche Akam tasked the governor to come out clean and not play politics with the future of Ebonyi people. “Obviously, there is no smoke without fire. Umahi like Caesar’s wife should not only be innocent but should be above suspicion,” he wrote. “He needs to come out clean on what we need to know about Ebonyi and herdsmen brouhaha. This is not about party politics; it is about people’s patrimony. Ndi Ebonyi didn’t elect leaders expecting to cede their land nor to go hungry just to please others.” 