Sen. Benjamine Uwajumogu, former Secretary of All Progressive Congress (APC) National Convention Committee, said no fewer than 60 persons had collected form to contest for positions in the party’s forthcoming convention. He stated this on Tuesday in Abuja while handing over to new secretary of the committee, Sen. Victor Ndoma Egba, at the party’s National Headquarters. ´´As at today, more than 60 people have bought forms for the vacant positions, yet the sale of forms is still ongoing. “However, we are keeping to the timetable released earlier. Everything is still in order and my leaving the position will not affect the process. “I know very well that with the experiences Sen. Ndoma-Egba has, he will bring more vibes to this convention scheduled for June 23,´´ he said. Uwajumogu, who resigned as secretary of the committee recently, said he needed to be away to attend to some personal issues. He described Ndoma-Egba as a fine gentleman, and said that he was happy that he was the one succeeding him. He assured that the 2018 National Convention of the party would be one of the best to be organised by the party. ´´I was not disappointed because Sen. Ndoma-Egba is from the Eastern Region and I believe that he is most qualified and most positioned to succeed me as Secretary of the National Convention Committee,´´ he said. In his response, Ndoma-Egba thanked Uwajumogu for setting a very strong framework and a clear footpath to a successful national convention. ´´You have done the bulk of the work, mine is just to continue and conclude the good work you have started. ´´I share your feelings that the 2018 Convention will be a very successful one and this is in spite of your departure for personal reasons, mine is to make sure that we move forward. ´´Please remain a phone call away, because we will be calling you every now and then to share your insights and vision,´´ he said. The secretary described the assignment as ´´intense but short´´, and assured that he would work with the delegates’ list from the party´s national leadership. (NAN)