The Chief Risk Officer of Coronation Merchant Bank; Mr. Magnus Nnoka has been elected as the president of the Risk Management Association of Nigeria (RIMAN). His election  took place  at the 18th Annual International Conference and Annual General meeting of the Association which took place recently at the Eko Hotels and Suites. Now in its 18th year, RIMAN has been at the fore front of promoting best practices and advocacy in risk management and related disciplines in Nigeria. The organization provides distinct and value-added services through its pool of industry experts and seasoned professionals. It also sets national standard in Professional designation with the Certified Risk Manager (CRM)  certification through the association’s on-going structured examination programme and Mandatory Continuing Professional Education (MCPE) Prior to his election as President of RIMAN, Mr. Nnoka Magnus has been on the Executive council of the Association for over a decade, served at various times as 2nd Vice President and 1st Vice President. He has also chaired prominent governance committees like training & membership committee. Mr. Nnoka brings to the Association very rich  experience in the banking sector spanning over two decades and cutting across banks and core areas of Treasury, Branch Management/Operations and Enterprise Risk Management. In his post-election acceptance speech, Mr. Nnoka stated that under his leadership, RIMAN will remain committed to spearheading risk management advocacy and capacity building activities beyond the financial services sector. He promised to lead a team that would sustain a risk-aware business environment working closely with various regulatory agencies and stakeholders. Mr. Nnoka whilst recognizing the enormous task of leading the Association in current global and national risk environment,  believes that the strong risk culture existing at Coronation Merchant Bank – a leading investment bank in Nigeria – and the pool of experienced professionals at RIMAN would serve as strong pillars in carrying out the tasks of the office. 