By OBINNA EZUGWU Senior lawyer and president emeritus of Igbo think tank group, Aka Ikenga, Chief Goddy Uwazurike has condemned the planned military operation in the South East zone, Python Dance 3, as unnecessary and an attempt to intimidate the people of the zone. Chief Uwazurike who registered his displeasure over the planned military exercise in a chat with Business Hallmark, wondered why the army would leave the volatile North East where its personnel are being killed daily by insurgents and instead focus on carrying out operations in “peaceful” South East zone. “There’s insecurity in the north,” he said. “The military dishes out casualty figures from time to time. Recently it conducted a Catwork Exercise in the North central zone. But in the South-East, it conducted operation python dance. “One year after the casualty figures have not been released. It’s about to launch another operation. Note that the north central zone only was an exercise. The South-East one is an operation. Soon all kinds reasons will be paroted by those who point at their father’s compound with their left hand as the justification for this desecration of Igboland,” he concluded. The Nigerian Army had on Wednesday, said it will soon commence ‘Operation Python Dance 3,” otherwise called Egwu Eke III, in South East States formations and units under 82 Division, Nigerian Army. This was disclosed by the General Officer Commanding, GOC, 82 Division Nigeria Army, Maj. Gen. Emmanuel Boman Kabuk, at the 302 Artillery Regiment Onitsha, Anambra State, when he paid a familiarisation visit to the military cantonment, having resumed duties in Enugu on August 6, 2018. “Exercise Egwu Eke III, is a training exercise for troops of 82 Division of the Nigerian Army and during the training, if there are criminal activities like armed robbery, kidnapping and other criminal activities that distort peace and tranquility of the citizenry along the line, the Army will not close its eyes and watch those criminals activities to thrive,” the GOC said. © 2018, Hallmarknews. All rights reserved. Reference and link to this site is required if you wish to reuse any article. 0 comments and opinions