By OKEY ONYENWEAKU With the intention of expanding its pan-African banking operations United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, in collaboration with its finance partner China Development Bank (CDB), the world’s largest development financier, on February 27, 2018 announced the signing of a letter of intent (LOI) for a $100 million seven-year Facility for the development of small and medium enterprises (SMEs) across the continent. The $100 million loan will grow UBA’s capacity to provide finance to small and medium enterprises (SMEs) in the 19 African countries UBA currently operates. The banks Group Managing Director/ CEO, Kennedy Uzoka, expressed delight and excitement at the partnership with CDB, he noted that, “this is a historic transaction, and we strongly believe that the facility will serve as a catalyst to the sustainable development of commerce and industry in Africa through provision of critical financial interventions to SMEs across our present continental scope of operations”. Uzoka noted that the fund would be timely, as it would complement the recovery of economic activities. It would also encourage African enterprise as the funds would be applied to SMEs, which are important for inclusive growth.  Speaking during the signing ceremony, Chairman of UBA Plc, Mr. Tony Elumelu said that the fund would boost small and medium scale enterprises across Africa, noting that CDB’s interest in supporting SMEs aligns with UBA’s vision in growing business across Africa. “In UBA, CDB would have an enduring partner in reaching out to Africans as UBA provides banking services to over 14 million people across 20 African countries, and like CDB, UBA funds critical infrastructural projects on the continent’  Elumelu said. He expressed that he would like to see an even stronger relationship grow with CDB and UBA as well as with China and Nigeria. Also commenting, the President of CDB, Mr. Zheng Zhijie, said the loan intent is the beginning of cooperation between UBA and CDB that would translate into an enduring business relationship between China and Africa and Nigeria in particular. “UBA is a leading and dependable bank not only in Nigeria but Africa, and this partnership will help our Bank to accelerate its business objectives in Africa, more importantly as we deepen our investment in energy, road and rail constructions, infrastructure in Africa,” Zhije said. 