By AYOLA OLAOLUWA Her father is the world’s richest black man, so it’s little surprise that Fatima Dangote’ wedding was a lavish, no-expense spared, fairy-tale affair. Fatima, who is one of 57-year-old industrialist Aliko Dangote’s three daughters, last Friday, married the pilot son of former Inspector General of Police, MD Abubakar, Jamil in the mother of all weddings. It was a marriage made in heaven but actualised on earth. Several dignitaries, local and international met in three different locations – Kano, Abuja and Lagos – for the cement merchant daughter’s wedding. The highlight of the wedding was the conspicuous presence of the world’s richest man, Bill Gates. Knowing Gates is not a very socially active person who sparingly makes social appearances tells of the mutual respect between the two billionaires; it was bliss for many Nigerians to see Gates in the flesh, gracing the Nigerian wedding of the century. Gates did not only attend the traditional wedding in Kano on Friday, March 16, he stayed on for another eight days to grace the official wedding and reception ceremonies held in Lagos. The wedding Fatiha a week earlier was nothing short of a royal gala. President Muhammadu Buhari served as the bride’s guardian after the payment of N500, 000 as dowry as stipulated by tradition. Thereafter, the 19th Fulani emir of Kano, Malam Muhammad Sanusi II consummated the marriage contract as outlined by Islamic injunction inside his palace at 11am, as the Chief Imam of Kano, Professor Sani Zahraddeen led the distinguished crowd in supplication. As expected, it was an exquisite ceremony with the bride literally looking regal and dripping with glamour as she continually smiled sweetly at the numerous guests. Styled by Deola Sagoe in a stunning face beat by BM Pro, it was not difficult to know who the bride was among the gorgeous friends and family member who came to celebrate with the couple. The groom looked dashing in his resplendent agbada. Invited guests at the ceremony were not served alcoholic drinks at the ceremony as the bride’s billionaire dad, Business Hallmark gathered, had already banned such substances from the celebration long before the day. It was an event that brought the nation to a standstill. Everyone that matters, politicians, businessmen, clergies, monarchs, envoys, just mention it, signed the attendance register. If something untoward had happened that day, the nation would have been left with no leadership. But thankfully, everything went according to plans. Among the dignitaries that graced the event are President Muhammadu Buhari; international business man, Bill Gates; former Nigerian military Head of state, General AbdulSalami Abubakar; Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki; Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara; former National Security Adviser, General Aliyu Gusau, and several other Governors, House of Reps, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi; Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu; Chief Justice of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, and important businessmen, clergies and traditional rulers. The professional class was not left out. They also troop to Kano to pay honour the bride’s father with their attendance. Other top VIP that graced the wedding includes All Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu. Among the governors that attended the wedding were governors of Kano, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje, Katsina, Aminu Bello Masari, Sokoto, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, Nasarawa, Umar Tanko Almakura and Kaduna, Malam Nasir El-Rufa’i. Others governors at the wedding include governors of Borno, Kashim Shettimam, Yobe, Ibrahim Geidam, Kogi Yahaya Bello, Ogun Ibikunle Amosun, Oyo, Abiola Ajimobi and Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed of Kwara State. Other top dignitaries at the traditional wedding were former National Security Adviser, General Aliyu Gusau, serving and former senators and members of House of Representatives, serving and former ministers as well as head of federal government agencies. Security at the occasion was tight as all the entrances leading to the palace were heavily guarded by armed security operatives. The development prevented many guests including journalists from covering the events. As part of the wedding rites of Fatima, a Kamu/Yini night was hosted by her grandmother, Dr Hajiyya Mariya Sanusi Dantata. The Kamu Amariya is one of the oldest events in the Hausa wedding ceremony. Kamu means catch the bride. The groom’s family comes and negotiates with the bride’s friends for her release to them. They normally come for their bride willing to pay any price to have her. This is a fun event and negotiation take up to 30 minutes followed by a fun reception. Eight days later on March 23, the wedding train moved to Lagos, precisely the Eko Hotel & Suites where a grand reception for the newly wedded was hosted – a 6-part ceremony which started in Abuja, then Kano, before it was moved to Lagos. Despite the bride’s father’s reported ban of alcohol at the ceremony, guests of the couple still included top politicians, entertainers, socialites and the cherry on top of the guest list was the presence of the world’s richest man, Bill Gates. The bride, Fatima, looked angelic as she walked beside her husband Jamil, looked dapper in his Tuxedo. Popular musician, Davido, led entertainers at the event and even dropped a customary energetic performance. Other entertainers that trilled guest are Bovi, Seyi Law, Toolz, DJ Cuppy, Omawunmi, Waje, Debola Lagos and Dolapo Oni, Most Nigerians never knew the richest black man in the world had it in him. They never knew Aliko can dance wonderfully to the tunes reeled out by musicians and DJs. But the proud father was spotted digging it to Davido’s hit song “Like Dat” at his daughter’s wedding dinner reception. Senators Ademola Adeleke and Dno Melaye joined the business mogul and the newly wedded to dance to the melodious tunes of Davido. At the time of going to press, the performance is the most talked about subject on the internet. The high and mighty was also in attendance. Having missed Fatima and Jamil’s wedding Fatiha in Kano due to their daughter, Damilola’s impressive nuptials in Abuja last week, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and his wife, Dolapo were there. First Lady Aisha Buhari; Senate President, Bukola Saraki; Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, Governors Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo and Nyesom Wike of Rivers and a host of others represent the politics contingent at the dazzling ceremony. Other dignitaries at Friday’s event included former Head of State, Yakubu Gowon, Kano Emir, Lamido Sanusi II, Femi Otedola, Dele Momodu, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, and so many others in both political and entertainment circles.