By OBINNA EZUGWU A few weeks ago, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu was tasked by President Muhammadu Buhari with reconciling the crisis ridden All Progressives Congress (APC). A task he accepted gleefully to many people’s amazement given the isolation he had suffered in the president’s hands.  He gladly went to work, visiting states like Sokoto to meet with Governor Waziri Tambuwal in view of the crisis in Kano where the governor, Abdullahi Ganduje and his predecessor, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso are having a rough supremacy battle. There, he posed for photoups but that would be all his long trip to the North West state could achieve. Indeed, it has turned out to be the greatest success he has achieved so far on the job; everything else has got worse for him. Not many gave the former governor a chance of success given the complex nature of the brewing crisis in the party, especially in states like Kaduna where the state governor, Nasir El-Rufai is having ‘mortal combat’ with Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi, on one hand and Senator Shehu Sani on the other.; or in Kogi where Governor Yahaya Bello is leveraging on his contact in Aso Rock to intimidate Senator Dino Melaye. Also, Tinubu himself is at loggerheads with the party’s National Chairman, Chief John Oyegun, whom he has been plotting to topple as well as certain groups in the South West. While at the national level, the sharp division between the Senate President, Bukola Saraki’s camp and the president’s camp is too visible. All these cleavages are part of his brief. Indeed, Tinubu has thus far, as many had rightly predicted, managed to, at best unite the party, in some respects, against himself, even as it is now almost certain that the job may not only consume him, but also fast track the party’s almost inevitable implosion. It is not in doubt that in its quest to retain power in 2019, the APC has neither the main opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) nor the potential new party expected to be birthed by former President, Olusegun Obasanjo’s largely discredited Third Force Movement, as key threat but itself. In other words, APC’s main opposition is APC and this will likely unravel in no distant time. Buhari’s decision to task Tibubu with mending the party’s broken fences had appeared like a masterstroke. The Lagos politician’s support would be critical for his second term bid. It is a realisation that had seen the president’s camp go from spiting him in Kogi, Ondo and the National Assembly in bids to cut him to size, to sweeping a financial scam in Oando, which he has interest in, under the carpet and suddenly making him part of presidential entourage. Until lately, Buhari had never pretended to be enamoured with Tinubu who he would naturally see as a threat, but it had become strategic to mend fences with him. Giving him the job of reconciling the party was a deep political calculation. The president could not have been under any illusions about the near impossibility of him getting the task accomplished, but if only it could help give him a sense of belonging and ensure his support ahead of 2019, it was a right gamble. It is a gamble that could turn out either way to his favour. In the unlikely event that Tinubu succeeds, it could only be to the benefit of his reelection. If he failed, as was likely, he would have been sufficiently demystified while he could lay claim to having had no hand in it. It had surprised many that Tinubu would accept with ease Buhari’s assignment. Even his wife, Senator Remi Tinubu admitted recently that she had cause to query him over his decision given that the president “trashed” him after he took office in 2015. To some, it amounted to being too politically naive to offer himself to be used and dumped a second time. But his supposed naivety is not precisely in that context. Tinubu has his eyes on the nation’s top job in 2023 for which he had reportedly sought former president Obasanjo’s support but was denied, and in his calculation, the assignment would enable him take over the party’s structure in wait for 2023. However, taking the party’s structure would, of course, mean taking out its current chairman, Oyegun whom he had backed for the job in 2013, but who had ‘wisely’ switched allegiance to Buhari, realising perhaps that the real power resided with the executive president and not with the titular “National Leader of APC.” Despite the former Lagos governor’s initial efforts to have people believe otherwise, it would appear that his real motive was to take over the party and therefore take out Oyegun. Threatened therefore, the former Edo State chief executive acted swiftly. He went to Kogi and unilaterally inaugurated new state officials parallel to those already in existence. Tinubu felt undermined by the move and lashed out. In a letter addressed to Buhari a fortnight ago, he accused the chairman of acting in contravention of their earlier discussions and working actively to undermine his mandate. “You (Oyegun) promised unalloyed support for my mission. Consonant with that vow, you said you would provide all information at your disposal and you vowed to act as liaison between me and the state party chapters,” Tinubu wrote. “Unfortunately, the spirit of understanding and of cooperative undertaking to revive the party seems not to have lived beyond the temporal confines of that meeting. “I assure anyone who cares to know that this positive spirit of cooperation did not meet its demise at my hands. “Instead of being a bulwark of support as promised, you positioned yourself in active opposition to the goal of resuscitating the progressive and democratic nature of the APC. “As a party, we have strived to be the best, present hope for the nation. Yet, your goal appears to be something of a lesser pedigree. “In our discussion, you personally mentioned Kogi, Kaduna, Kano and Adamawa states as places afflicted by serious party issues. Given your assessment, these are states where I believe cooperation between you and I should have been intense and detailed. Instead, you have taken it as your personal mission to thwart my presidential assignment in these key states. “In Kogi, you rushed to the state to unilaterally inaugurate new state chapter officials parallel to the officials already heading the state chapter of the party. “While this may place you in significant affinity with those parallel officials you handpicked, this machination suggests no improvement in the welfare of the party in Kogi or at the national level.  This usurpation of authority exacerbates conflict and confusion; it does not resolve them.” In a terse response, Oyegun ignored all the allegations raised by Tinubu and simply congratulated him on his appointment. “Let me once again formally congratulate you on the peacemaking assignment Mr. President has entrusted you with,” Oyegun said. “It is most challenging but I believe you will ultimately justify the confidence reposed in you by Mr President. In this, you have my fullest support.” A line was drawn between the duo as a result, and neither Buhari nor the party’s governors have hidden the fact that they are for the chairman. In Ondo, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu pointed out clearly that his state does not need the former Lagos governor since there was no crisis to resolve, and that ultimately, he is with Buhari and Oyegun who, according to him, are the party’s leaders. At the party’s National Executive Council meeting held last week Tuesday, some of Buhari’s most loyal governors with the president’s backing extended Oyegun’s and the National Working Committee’s tenure which ought to elapse on June 30, 2018, by one year. A decision many have said was in contravention of the APC constitution. In a statement issued same Tuesday night by the Chairman of the party’s Governors’ Forum Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State, he said the decision reached at the NEC meeting was a “mere expression of interest”, noting that it was only at the National Convention of the party that a constitutional amendment can be carried out to extend the tenures of the executives. It is a decision that will further generate debate and possibly crisis going forward, but the point about who the presidency prefers as the supremacy battle between Tinubu and Oyegun continue has been sufficiently made. To add insult to Tinubu’s injury, a group that called itself the APC National Vanguard came up with an allegation that he had signed a secret deal with the PDP to remove Buhari in 2019. The group further noted that the letter by Tinubu to Buhari against Oyegun contained allegations that were not unexpected of an elder statesman, adding that there was an elaborate plan by Tinubu and the PDP to cause discord within the APC. Yet, Tinubu does not have only Oyegun and the Buhari camp’s apparent lack of trust to contend with. In his native South West, resentment towards him has been growing. He is accused of being too overbearing by some groups within the party. BusinessHallmark had learnt through reliable sources that the defeat of the APC in the Osun West rerun senatorial election by the PDP was actively aided by top members of the party, including governors who volunteered necessary information to the opposition party to undermine Tinubu. Presently, he seems to have only Lagos and the largely depleted Governor Rauf Aregbesola camp in Osun to rely strongly on in the the entire zone. He has not had the best of relationships with Ogun State governor, Ibikunle Amosun and he has to extend lost control in Oyo State where Abiola Ajimobi reigns as governor. Ekiti is PDP while Ondo is an outright enemy. There are also the young Turks as represented by Minister of Works, Power and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola (SAN), Rotimi Amaechi of transportation and his solid minerals counterpart, Kayode Fayemi who have had rusty relationship with him. Dr. Bukola Saraki represents another formidable camp within the APC, a camp that is neither beholden to Tinubu nor Buhari and which seems to have majority of the party’s members at the National Assembly, both in the Senate and the House of Representatives. Within the legislature, there is now a party known as “party Saraki” to which many of the lawmakers belong. Thus, should he make a move, and it is likely, APC membership at the National Assembly would suffer severe depletion. As it stands, in addition to the crisis in various states, there appears to be three parallel camps within the APC. One led by Buhari which has most of the governors; the second led by Saraki with most of the legislatures and the third led by Tinubu which has South West street and a huge financial war chest. It is difficult to see these parallel lines meeting, and Tinubu’s assignment can only serve, as has been the case, to expose him to risk of demystification.