By Obinna Ezugwu The United Progressive Party (UPP), has rolled out its manifesto ahead of 2019 general election, noting that it would be the party to beat at the polls, just at it pleaded with Nigerians to help it dislodge the All Progressive Congress (APC) which according to it has failed the country. The party which said this in a statement by its National Leader, Comrade John Ewodage, emphasized that it stands for self determination, resource control, referendum, restructuring among other ideals and called on the youths to embrace the party. The statement reads in part: “Nigerians and most especially the youth should embrace the United
Progressive Party (UPP) to take over power from the All Progressive Congress government at the centre which has failed us. “Nigerian youths who are yet to register for their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) should immediately proceed to register now that the exercise is ongoing all over the nation, failure of which they should forever keep their silence. Your PVC is your power to decide who rules over you in 2019. “UPP is the only party right now in Nigeria that has in its manifesto and  firmly for Self Determination, Referendum,  Restructuring, Unconditional Release of Prisoners of Conscience, Resource Control, State Police/Community policing and True Federalism.” Calling on the youths across the country to join the party, Ewodage said: “This is why our youths across the length and breadth of this country should come out en-mass, come 2019 election, and embrace UPP and express their anger through voting and not by crying and carrying arms. UPP has articulated policies for the development of our youths through sports and culture as an aspect of national education. “Our aim is to create a new generation youths with sound body and mind, full of confidence and with team spirit through competitive sports. “In giving the youth secure footing in our cultural heritage; we give them an anchor which will enable them to appropriate the technology and business sophistication of the modern world without losing ground in traditional system and values.”