Fidelity Bank Plc on Monday rewarded 13 customers with N19 million under the Get Alert in Millions Savings ( GAIM) season three, to mark the yuletide.
The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the customers were awarded cash and consolation prizes at the second monthly draw in Lagos.
Some of the customers who cash prizes are: Mr Kamsiyochukwu Okoli, Abuja, N2 million; Ms Elisabeth David (Kaduna branch) N3 million and Mr Collins Oragwam of Akoka branch Lagos, N2 million.
Mrs Chijioke Ugochukwu, the bank’s Executive Director, Shared Services and Products, said the winners emerged from a process conducted by the bank’s control team, witnessed by officials of the Consumer Protection Council (CPC) and other stakeholders.
She said the promo was initiated to strengthen the Federal Government’s financial inclusion policy.
Ugochukwu added that the bank had given a total of N34 million to over 62 customers under the GAIM season three initiative.
“N76 million is still outstanding for grabs by lucky customers in the course of the promo.
“N110 million will be given to customers at the end of the GAIM 3 promo expected to last for six months. We also rewarded 1,400 customers with airtime worth N1.8 million.
“The GAIM season 3, popularly known as Game 3, is the eight promo being conducted by the bank in the past 11 years.
“The focus of the bank is to improve the standard of living of its customers and to strengthen savings culture,’’ she said.
Ugochukwu said the savings promo allowed the bank to go into the `nooks and crannies’ of the country to enlighten people on financial inclusion.
“Today, the draw produced 13 cash winners of N19 million nationwide and produced 18 consolation prize winners of table top fridges, generators and television sets.
“This event has been public conduct and public witnessing that produced winners across the country,” Ugochukwu said.
Also speaking, Mr Richard Madiebo, the bank’s Divisional Head, Retail Banking, said the bank used the savings promo to reward customers during this Yuletide season.
“What we urge customers to do, is to go and save your money with Fidelity in any of our branches across the country,” he said. © 2018, Hallmarknews. All rights reserved. Reference and link to this site is required if you wish to reuse any article. comments and opinions