Nigerian Breweries Plc. has been named the Most Compliant Listed Company, for being an early filer of financial statements; complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Code of Corporate Governance; with zero sanctions received during the year under review in the NSE CEO Awards organised by the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). It is also Corporate Governance Rating System (CGRS) certified. In a ceremony held in Lagos on Wednesday, Seplat Development Company Plc. also emerged winner of the award for Issuer with the Highest Number of Disclosures, for issuing the highest number of non-structured disclosures during the year under review. Initiated in 2012, The NSE CEO Awards is designed to reward and motivate listed companies, Dealing Member Firms, Fund Managers and Issuing Houses to attain higher levels of corporate governance, compliance and performance that reinforce investor confidence in the Nigerian capital market. This year, The Exchange enhanced the award categories from three to 10 to reflect the dynamic nature of the market. The categories for this year include Most Digital Broker of the Year (which was presented earlier in the year to Meristem Stockbrokers Limited) at The Exchange’s Market Data Conference held on Friday, 19 October 2018); Best Dealing Member Firm in terms of Volume; Best Dealing Member Firm in terms of Value; Most Compliant Dealing Member Firm; Most Compliant Listed Company; Listed Company with Highest Number of Disclosures; Issuing House with the Largest Value in a Single Deal; Issuing House with the Highest Number of Primary Market Transactions (Equity); Issuing House with the Highest Number of Debt Issuance (Corporate Bonds); and Fund Manager with the Largest Listed Fund Size. Pilot Securities Limited was named the Most Compliant Dealing Member Firm for 2018, having demonstrated the highest degree of compliance with the rules and regulations Governing Dealing Members of the Exchange in 2018. Stanbic IBTC Stockbrokers Limited won two awards for Dealing Member Firm with the highest volume and Dealing Member Firm with the highest value of trades. Stanbic IBTC Capital Limited, Vetiva Capital Management Limited and Cordros Capital Limited were joint winners of the award for Issuing Houses with the Highest Number of Primary Market Transactions (Equity). FBNQuest Merchant Bank Limited, ARM Securities Limited and Stanbic IBTC Capital Limited were adjudged winners of the award for Issuing Houses with the Highest Number of Debt Issuance (Corporate Bonds). This is based on the value of new transactions approved and listed on the Exchange. The award for Issuing Houses with the Largest Value in a Single Deal went to Stanbic IBTC Capital Limited and Union Capital Market Limited, for facilitating the highest value of deals on the Exchange. First City Asset Management Limited won the award for Fund Manager with the Largest Listed Fund Size. This award takes into cognizance the cumulative size of new funds listed on the Exchange in 2018. Speaking at the awards ceremony, the Chief Executive Officer of The Exchange, Mr. Oscar N. Onyema, congratulated and commended this year’s winners for their hard work, dedication and contributions to the development of the Nigerian capital market. “I congratulate and honour all the winners of The NSE CEO Awards. These companies have demonstrated capabilities and commitment towards quality development and exceptional performance; high ethical standards; compliance with the Rules and Regulations of The Exchange, and other applicable laws and regulations that leave no room for any penalties; while acting as key drivers in strengthening the Nigerian capital market”. “The awards offer winners a year-round marketing opportunity and a big morale-booster for companies who have made extraordinary contributions to the Nigerian capital market and exemplify the highest standards” he added. Also at the occasion, five employees of The Exchange from the five divisions namely Shared Services, Regulation, Listings Business, Trading Business and Office of the CEO were awarded the most distinguished employees for their exemplary performance during the year under review. © 2018, Hallmarknews. All rights reserved. Reference and link to this site is required if you wish to reuse any article. comments and opinions