ADEBAYO OBAJEMU Sango-Ota, a bustling, fast developing commercial nerve centre of Ogun State is assuming at a dizzying business pace with many new businesses opening shop; it assuming the face of Oshodi, going by its commercial intensity, hustle and bustle of traders, sellers and buyers.  Everything and all things one can buy in Oshodi or Lagos Island now readily available in Sango-Ota, from home daily needs, to electronics, furniture and other kinds of consumer products. For this sprawling market, it had not always been like this, but with the clearing of Oshodi by former governor Mr. BabatundeFashola government, and the increasing cost of doing business in Lagos, many traders and businesses have moved to this axis in order to cut costs. Within a spate of two years, Sango-Ota has effectively replicated Oshodi. It is this new reality that has led to the scramble for Sango by banks for market share, and nothing demonstrates the battle more than the frenzy with which banks struggle to up the ante in service delivery, efficiency, cozy environments, ATM efficiency and ease of transactions. At the Sterling Bank branch along Ijoko-Sango road, there is a complex of minuses and pluses for the bank. The environments ,though not inviting , has expansive space to accommodate up to 12 vehicles, and about five ATM machines, with few customers. There is no queue on the ATM, and the banking hall is devoid of the usual long line of customers. The ATM machines are efficient, with customers not spending longer than five minutes. A customer, Mrs. Aishat Falodun says she is satisfied with the quality of ATM service, as she does not need to waste her time on queue any time she comes to the bank.  At Ecobank branch along the Sango-Ota bridge, the environment is too compact, and restricting; there is no parking spaces for customers save, staff. The ATM , numbering about five were working , but many customers said the day this reporter visited was a lucky day for them, as according to them, ATM machines often disappoint, either there is no enough cash to cough out or system breaks down. At the banking hall, services were slow, and there was long line of customers on queue. At Fidelity Bank, just on the right end of the bridge from Ifo side, the environment is beautiful and inviting, and spacious enough to take in 15 cars. The ATM machines, four in all, were working, and the queue though not long soon disappeared because of the ease with which people transacted their financial business. At the banking hall, there was efficiency in the way tellers attended to customers, while security personnel were on hands to assist. Sharing boundaries with the bank is FCMB. Like Fidelity, it has an inviting environment, and space that can hold 15 cars, efficient security, and there was no queue on its ATM gallery, numbering about four. Inside the banking hall, the line of customers was being attended to as efficiently as it was expected. Though, a customer told this newspaper that most times, the ATM machines fumble, during which people move to ATM of the other banks close by. At the Zenith Bank branch, customers were seen attending to some customers who had difficulties with the ATM machine on account of illiteracy, as they could not operate the machine without guidance. There were about seven machines, all working perfectly. Customers who spoke to this reporter said Zenith has the best control over the ATM, and unparalleled efficiency. There was a long line at the banking hall which tended to dissipate at the drop of a hat. The next port of call was GTB, which competes with Zenith in the coziness of the environment, ATM efficiency and customer service. The bank’s security men were on hand to guide the perplexed and sort out things for customers. At the banking hall, efficiency was also the watchword. There are two branches of Zenith Bank, with just five minutes drive from each other. At the other branch, close to Toll gate, there was replication of efficiency and ATM best practice noticed at the first branch. Close to the bank is First Bank. Here, there are about five ATM machines, three were working, and attempts were being made to sort out the remaining two, which were also working before. The security personnel were polite and efficient, but there was a long queue inside the banking hall, and customers spent longer time on the queue. A man in his 70s, who identified himself as Oseni said despite the queue he preferred the bank to all others. When asked why, he retorted that ‘First Bank can not just collapse like that; I don’t want my money to grow wings’. The UBA Sango-Ota branch boasts of space that can take at least ten cars, the ATM machines were working, but few were not as at the time this reporter visited, and the security personnel were polite and efficient. But inside the banking hall, there was a long queue that was not efficiently attended to. On the whole, the battle for the soul of  Sango-Ota rages, with the leading generals being Zenith and GTB.