…Dangote, Obiano, Amaechi, others pay tribute OBINNA EZUGWU Inside the sizeable hall in an exclusive hotel at No 23 Gerald Road Ikoyi on February 18, Dr. Alex Otti sat, almost invisible in his black, simple native attire, enveloped by the “agbada adorned, regally dressed Chief Willie Obiano, the executive governor of Anambra State. He peeped around once in a while, perhaps surprised at the number and calibre of people who had come to celebrate him on his birthday.  It took extra effort to know he was there. Surrounded by Senator Victor Umeh in his trademark red long cap, Obiano; Nkem Okeke, the deputy governor of Anambra; Mr. Nnamdi Okonkwo, MD, Fidelity Bank among others around the table. He sat calmly. It was his 53rd birthday, but he looked 40 at best, and friends had gathered to celebrate him; an icon. The hall vibrated, not with music, but with personalities in attendance. It was a carnival of sorts. At the opposite end, Rotimi Amaechi, former governor of Rivers State who presently serves as Minister of Transportation, sat with his entourage. He too had come all the way from Abuja, and “despite his busy schedule” to celebrate a classmate, and a friend at 53. So had many others, including Mr. Osagie Okunbor, Managing Director, Shell Nigeria; his predecessor, Mutiu Sunmonu; Mr. Uduma Okoro Kalu, Managing Director of SouthGlobe Ltd… the roll call is endless… and of course, there was Africa’s richest man, Alhaji Aliko Dangote who was profuse in his praise of the man of the moment. In a country where honest men are few, and even fewer in the business environment, Alhaji Dangote pointed out that Dr Otti is a man you could never fault, even in business dealings. Indeed, a man whose word is his bond and who personifies honesty. “Alex is very trustworthy, dependable and very straightforward,” Dangote noted. “In terms of honesty, you can’t really fault him.” Turning to the celebrant, he said “I congratulate you and also congratulate your wife who is always standing beside you. It is an honor to be here, I feel honored to be associated with you.” Whomever much is said must truly be doing things. This is true of Dr. Otti, a cerebral genius who has achieved great heights as a professional banker, but who remains strangely very humble. His desire to do good seems unwavering despite the many hiccups of the Nigerian terrain. It was the time for Governor Obiano to pay his tribute to a professional colleague and a true friend, and he spoke from the bottom of his heart. “Alex Otti, you are a good man,” he said calmly. “In recent times, I have worked closely with you. I count you as a friend and a dependable ally. We shall once more work together in no distant time.” Rotimi Amaechi who proposed the toast made the same point over. Both men had been school mates at the University of Port Harcourt, and the minister recalled from the days of old how the celebrant had always been an exceptional fellow. “At Uniport, Alex made first class,” he said; “with ease.” But at Uniport, he did not just make first class, he was the best student of the Faculty of Social Sciences and the overall best graduating student for the year 1988. Yet, whilst in school, he took roles such as news editor for the school newsletter, Uniport Mirror. In addition, he was the treasurer for the University Chapter of the Nigerian Economic Students’ Association (NESA) in 1986 and subsequently became the president of the association the following year. The exceptional brilliance he showed in Uniport, he replicated at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka where he bagged a doctorate degree; at Harvard Business School and the various international courses he attended, including the Executive Development Programmes in the Columbia Business and Stanford Business Schools, as well as Wharton Business School Pennsylvania. And ultimately to the banking profession where he achieved the peak as Managing Director; it was from there that he retired to run for the office of governor in his home state of Abia in 2015. Being Managing Director of a bank is a plumb job that many would consider bizarre to leave to venture into politics, but Otti insists it is a decision he had to make because he was concerned about how fast things were deteriorating in Abia on account of poor governance. The audience at the party comprised of many politicians and professionals from Abia, people like Mr. Chidi Ajaegbu, CEO of Heritage Capital Markets, who as a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), actively worked against Dr Otti in 2015 when he ran against Governor Okezie Ikpeazu, then candidate of the PDP; Mr. Johnson Chukwu, Founder of Cowry Asset Management Limited among others. And as they all reflected on the 2015 election, there was a certain consensus that it was an election whose real winner was Alex Otti. Mr. Chidi Ajaegbu in his speech particularly regretted working against him during the election, noting that he had believed the PDP candidate would deliver the goods in Abia. “I worked against Alex in 2015 as a strong member of the PDP. I did so believing that the current governor who I know to be a good man, would deliver, but so far, I am disappointed with what is happening. “Ikpeazu is a good man and have good intentions, but obviously he is constrained by so many people he has to settle, and we must move forward in Abia.” He, and many others vowed to throw their weight behind the former banker should he decide to contest in 2019, and the question was posed to him. When finally, it was his turn to speak, Otti thanked everyone who had come to celebrate him, particularly Alhaji Dangote who he said has been very supportive and ultimately answered the question about his 2019 ambition. “Let me start by thanking my friend and brother, Alhaji Aliko Dangote, GCON, for always being steadfast; for always supporting me in everything that I do. There is hardly anytime I call on him and he will not answer me.” On the 2019 question, he emphasised: “Somebody said that if you started a journey in the morning, and you were clear about your destination, the only reason to stop is that you have gotten to your destination. “It is either you go back to where you are coming from or you continue until you get to your destination. We are continuing until we get to our destination. “A lot of people quarrelled about my decision to quit my job as CEO of Diamond Bank to contest an election, it is understandable, but I’m also a strong believer in what Edmund Burke said several years ago that the only condition necessary for the triumph of evil is that good men do nothing. “I think it was also Plato who said that when smart and intelligent people refuse to participate in politics, they take way their right to complain when fools begin to rule them.” In the end, he stated specifically that he will run in 2019 under the platform of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) to the applause of all and sundry.