OBINNA EZUGWU Veteran columnist and elder statesman, Chief Adetola Adeniyi has warned former Lagos governor, Senator Bola Ahmed Tinubu against supporting President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term bid, as according to him, such could mark the beginning of the end of his influence in Yoruba land. Chief Adeniyi who led the Global Intelligentsia for Buhari, a group of Diaspora Nigerians that mobilized funds for the president’s campaign ahead of the 2015 presidential election, noted that he had withdrawn his support for him because he betrayed his pact with Yoruba people and warned that Tinubu will not be able to convince Yoruba people to support him this time. According to him, the decision of Buhari to task Tinubu with reconciling aggrieved members of the ruling All Progressives Congress was out of place and the former governor should not fall into the trap. “With due respect to Tinubu and his political sagacity, it does not appear that he would be able to carry Yoruba people along in this adventure,” he told BusinessHallmark. “For sure, Buhari his principal has been dancing to a different tune from the one played to him by the APC under Tinubu. Now that he is dancing to a different music, it doesn’t appear that Tinubu’s tune that brought him to power would be of any consequence, which is saying that Tinubu may be advised to withdraw the support for him and show him that without the South West, he could not have won the presidency. “But if Tinubu should go ahead and openly canvass support for Buhari, it may also erode his own influence among the Yoruba who have taken him as a voice to be reckoned with in political matters given his antecedents.” He pointed out that the former governor has been able to achieve political feats in the South West, but warned he could lose such if he maintains his support for Buhari who according to him, is pursuing policies that are contrary to the Yoruba worldview. “He produced two governors in Lagos, one did well and the second one is doing well. He was also able to produce three or four other governors in Yoruba land at a point in time, which shows the degree of influence that he had. “But I think the tragedy of his achievements is that the new music  that Buhari is dancing to is not in consonance with the Yoruba world view. We don’t believe in killing and slaughtering people like cows. And if Buhari is perceived to be aiding and abating those who are slaughtering people all over the country, the Yoruba will certainly withdraw the their support for him. “And any Yoruba person who is seen to be supporting Buhari would be going contrary to Yoruba wishes. It is in that light that Tinubu may be advised to take a second look at his pronouncements, especially regarding his unalloyed support for Buhari who has proven beyond doubt that he is the master of nepotism. “Rather than Tinubu falling over for him, it is better for him to leave him in the hands of his cabal and see how far the cabal can go in retaining him in Aso Rock beyond 2019.” Chief Adeniyi emphasised that Tinubu “is a national hero and we cannot allow any cabal to diminish him.”