By OBINNA EZUGWU Key actors in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) managed to keep up appearance to allow for a smooth transition at the party’s recently held national convention. Except for the exchange of blows among Imo and Delta States delegates, the convention was largely a success. But beneath the facade of orderliness, tensions brewed. These tensions are gradually taking a toll on the party both at the national and state levels and analysts say it represents the single biggest threat to President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term agenda. A new chapter in the party’s chequered life began with the conclusion of the convention, a chapter already marred by bitter rivalries and deep-seated mistrust in various states. But particularly at the national level where positioning for 2023 had opened up new a frontier for conflict, one that has thrown the Minister of Transportation, into a political wilderness of sorts, and has seen former chairman of the PDP, the ever controversial Ali Modu Sheriff, emerge as the new strong man of the party. Yet, a seeming breakaway faction – the Reformed APC (R-APC) – led by Buba Galadima, a long time ally of the President, joined the new Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) formed on Monday, in what is a culmination of long cries of marginalisation by the New PDP faction of the ruling party, as well as the President’s long term allies relegated into irrelevance by the proverbial power-hijacking Aso Rock Cabal. The die appears to have been cast for the party. Rotimi Amaechi was,  according to insiders, the single biggest financier of the Buhari campaign ahead of 2015. Indeed, it was when Amaechi joined the APC from the PDP as part of the New PDP, and was subsequently appointed as Director General of the Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO), that the President’s campaign began to run smoothly. He had designs for the office of vice president, but the political calculation of the time made it impossible. “Before Amaechi joined us, things were difficult,” disclosed a key ally of the President. “Before Amaechi, of course, (Bola Ahmed) Tinubu was the main person we depended on for support, but depending on him was a frustrating experience. “On many occasions, Buhari had to wait hours for him at the airport when there is a state to visit or a rally to attend. Usually, he would keep us waiting, because he was also trying to insist on certain concessions. But things changed when Amaechi joined us.” The former Rivers governor, sources say, is looking to fight for presidency in 2023, with Kaduna governor, Nasir El-Rufai as possible running mate. Amaechi worked closely with El-Rufai, alongside, Pastor Tunde Bakare and Jimi Lawal, for Buhari ahead of 2015. Both men established a cordial relationship as a result. Amaechi is said looking to build on the structure of BCO to launch a presidential bid of his own in 2023, a move that has set him on collision path with Tinubu who is apparently nursing the same ambition. Tinubu’s first move, it was said, was to oust him from his position as the DG of BCO, using the new APC chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, on the grounds that such post would be best handled by a sitting governor. It was learnt that the former Lagos governor invited Amaechi to a meeting a few days ago during which he asked him to resign, but he refused. Tinubu is the most courted bride in the presidency at the moment. His support remains critical to Buhari’s 2019 ambition. This convergence of interest, has apparently led to the formation, few days ago, of Buhari 2019 Presidential Support Committee to be headed by Modu Sheriff. Usually the man for the deals, Sheriff is emerging as a force in the party to whittle down Amaechi. The new committee has, as patrons,  Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo; Secretary to Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha; Tinubu and Alhaji Mamman Daura. And Senator M.T Mbu, Senator Yerima Bakura, Senator George Akume, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, Senator Ita Giwa, Hon. Gudaji Kazaure, Hajiya Ireti, Alhaji Ismaila Isa Funtua and Senator Abu Ibrahim as Members of national advisory committee. In effect therefore, Amaechi’s BCO has been rendered nearly ineffectual, even as there are moves to remove him. Amaechi’s woes has also extended to Rivers where he is fast losing control of the state APC structure to Senator Magnus Abe, with whom he had been at daggers down over the soul of the party in the state. In a way, the animosity towards Amaechi from the Tinubu camp could be said to have started in 2014 when his entrant into the Buhari campaign put Tinubu in a weak bargaining position. Tinubu had, it was learnt, wanted to insist on being Buhari’s running mate in 2015, and had called the president to a meeting in Bourdillon; a meeting that had both Oshiomhole then Edo governor and Rauf Aregbesola, Osun governor in attendance, to insist that the South West position was that he (Tinubu) be his running mate. But it was a request Buhari, buoyed by Amaechi financial support and the believe that then governor of Lagos, Babatunde Fashola, would deliver the state, refused, conceding only to have Tinubu nominate anyone of his choice for the VP slot. However, the Tinubu and Amaechi saga may not constitute as much threat to the APC overall interest as the R-APC. R-APC is said to comprise of about 30 senators and 60 members of the House of Representatives. They are expected to officially declare for the PDP-led CUPP alliance on July 31, a situation that would instantly strip the ruling party of its majority status in the national assembly. The emergence of R-APC is an offshoot of what has become a protracted power rift between the Bukola Saraki led senate, as well as the Hon. Yakubu Dogara led House of Reps and Buhari led executive. But the president’s poor handling of crisis in various states, as well as his penchant for abandoning allies for praise singers, some have pointed out, added a strong impetus to it. In Kano for instance, where Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje is battling with his political godfather and predecessor, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, the presidency instead of playing the mediator, backed Ganduje against Kwankwaso, presumably because of his presidential ambition, thus leading to the latter’s decision to opt out of the APC and lead the R-APC ranks. Kwankwaso remains a force to reckon with in Kano, his opting out of APC will not bode well for the president in a state he won nearly 2 million votes in 2015. Elsewhere in Sokoto, the antagonism towards the immediate past governor of the state, Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, has rubbed off on the current governor, his political godson, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal who sources say, is not on the same page, by any means, with Abuja. He had reportedly noted last week, following the gruesome murder of over 39 people in his state that Nigerians did not elect Buhari to be killed. There are concerted effort by Oshiomhole and other governors of the party to convince Tambuwal, and indeed other R-APC big shots to remain in the party. But it may be coming late. Last week, five governors of the APC: Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara and Kashim Shettima of Borno, Jibrilla Bindow of Adamawa, Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa  Aminu Masari of Kastina and Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger, met the Sokoto governor behind closed doors perhaps in a bid to dissuade him from rejoining the PDP. In Kaduna, with the conclusion of the state congresses and convention, Governor Nasir El-Rufai, with Buhari’s backing, has successfully taken hold of the party. But it has come with the complete alienation of the state’s three senators: Sen. Suleiman Othman Hunkuyi (Kaduna North), Sen. Shehu Sani (Kaduna Central) and Sen. Danjuma La’ah (Kaduna South). The three senators are part of the R-APC and according to Senator Sani, they are on their way out of the APC where he alleges that they have suffered grave injustice. Their imminent departure, El-Rufai would see as a victory, but it could in the end prove to be Pyrrhic. The senators represent a power bloc in the state and their departure could undermine the ruling party’s overall interest. “Some of their leaders try to trivialize it and give the impression that it doesn’t matter, that they are strong enough in spite of losing members and in spite of the grand coalition against them, but time will tell,” noted Segun Sowunmi, a PDP chieftain. Indeed, it’s a crisis foretold. Galadima, had noted in 2016, long before that matters got to this point, that the APC had become like an orphan because nobody was taking responsibility for its crisis. He had warned that Buhari’s lack of interest in party politics, especially in resolving the APC crisis, may lead to its disintegration, thereby leaving the president with no political platform to run in 2019. Speaking on AIT recently, Galadima who serves as the National Chairman of R-APC, made the point that the President had abandoned those who worked for him because he only wanted those who tell him what he wants to hear, noting that he made more contributions to Buhari than those in his “kitchen cabinet”. “I have suffered intimidation, arrests, questioning, locked up 38 times. Not only that. I was detained and tried for treason, put underground dungeon, chained in the hands and legs because of him. “I know the people that I am talking about. They were receiving money from the government of the time during elections, conducting fake research and using their positions as members of trade union to say that the elections were fair, and today, they are Buhari’s people. “I have made input than those in Buhari’s kitchen cabinet. I have been with him when these charlatans around were fighting us because of him. Where were all these fair weather friends?” he queried. At the signing of the MoU that gave birth to CUPP on Monday, he called on Buhari not to seek reelection in 2019 because given the situation of things, he would lose. “If I were his advisers, I will advise him not to attempt to contest. Going by what I know and what I have access to, I can assure you that Gen. Buhari will not only lose the election but also his deposits. From the day we announced the reformed APC a lot of people were under pressure to back out,” he said. “We are ready to take on this fight despite any deprivation and intimidation because this country belongs to all of us. We must together fight to put it right. They can use the big stick . You know a desperate person can do anything; he can kill. If he has power he can arrest and detain. Whichever one they choose to do we are prepared to lay down our lives for the sake of our people.” While Oshiomhole maintains he would not lose sleep over Galadima’s R-APC move, as according to him, he is being sponsored by those who “thought our convention will be a failure, those who were expecting implosion;” and Senator Abdullahi Adamu, a core Buhari loyalist who said the group are riff raffs “419ners” and don’t go to their constituencies, Mr. Kayode Ogundamisi, the president’s strategist believes differently. “People can call him rabble rouser,” Ogundamisi told Channels TV, “but this is one guy I know that President Buhari himself would not take on face value. He is a grassroots mobilizer and I think the inability of the President to provide leadership for his political party has led to disaffection.” Down South, leadership crisis within the party in Delta, Imo and Rivers States have defied all remedy. Not only will they help to compound Buhari’s challenge in securing reasonable number of votes in areas he is already unpopular, the party may well be headed for defeat in the governorship and other elections in the affected states. “As it is, Buhari is only showing desperation by deciding to recontest, probably because he wants to destroy this country, and I say this boldly,” said Mr. Gani Taofeek, Lagos Publicity Secretary of the PDP. “His party has fallen apart, nothing is working for him. If he does not want to destroy this country, he should step aside because all the indices that showed he was going to win in 2015, has shown now that he cannot win. “It is obvious that he cannot win but because he is the incumbent, he wants to go into it, then there is something to it.” In Delta, it would be recalled that Great Ogboru and Senator Ovie Omo-Agege had bypassed the party’s NWC to conduct a parallel state congress and reelect the former state Chairman, Jones Erue, before the real approved date of the congress, which later produced Mr. Cyril Ogodo as the authentic and recognised state Chairman of the party. Ogodo was subsequently sworn in by the former National hairman of the party, Mr. John Odiege-Oyegun. But crisis has continued to brew between what is now the Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and Chief Great Ogboru faction versus the Olorogun O’tega Emerhor faction, and every effort made towards a resolution has fallen through. Recently, the Emerhor group obtained an interim injunction from a Delta State High Court sitting in the Kwale and presided over by Justice V.I Ofesi, restraining the Oshiomhole led NWC and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) from recognising or dealing with any other    executives of the party in the state apart from the Cyril Ogodo-led executive. In response, the Ogboru/Omo-Agege faction went to a court in Lagos to obtain a judgment binding Oshiomole, to recognise the Ogboru/Omo-Agege factional executive led by Erue. Several attempts made by the new APC chairman and the Minister of State for Petroleum, Ibe Kachikwu to resolve the impasse last week, failed to yield any positive result as the Ogboru/Omo-Agege faction insisted it would not attend any meeting with the Emerhor group until Oshiomhole swears in the Erue led executive. Similar scenario, as pointed out earlier, is playing out in Rivers State where Senator Abe and Amaechi are locked in bitter contest over the control of the party in the state ahead of 2019 governorship election. While in Imo, Governor Rochas Okorocha has staged a comeback in the battle of control following the swearing in of Oshiomhole as APC National Chairman. The governor who had lost grip of the party to the “Allied Forces” of the party led by the Deputy Governor, Eze Madumere, whose ward, local and state congresses had been recognized by the Oyegun led NWC while he gritted, is now moving to take over the party following Oshiomhole’s election as chairman and indeed, with Buhari’s moral support. Okorocha and Madumere’s faction had exchanged blows at the party’s National Convention in a melee that was eventually resolved in the governor’s favour. Okorocha supported Oshiomhole for the position. Fortnight ago, a Federal High Court in Owerri nullified the congresses held by the Madumere group and ordered fresh congresses, a move that meant victory for the governor. However, the Allied Forces are not backing down. They have moved to appeal the decision of the Federal High Court in what is turning out to be an interesting battle. The Governor has since initiated moves to impeach the Deputy Governor, Madumere. But Imo indigenes say it would be difficult for him to succeed in installing his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu as his successor. “Okorocha is an embodiment of the good, the bad and the ugly,” said Pastor Uneze, a local politician. “He tried in the area of urban renewal, but he failed in other areas. “He cannot succeed in making Uche Nwosu governor, that’s impossible because people have lost confidence in him,” Uneze noted, emphasising that in terms of popularity of aspirants, Mr. Frank Nneji and Daniel Kanu are leading the pack. However, with the way the APC handled the Ekiti polls, it would seem obvious that the party may still find a way of “winning” in the end. 0 comments and opinions