By OBINNA EZUGWU Age wise only five years separate them. Minister of Transportation, Chibuike Amaechi, 53, shares the same 1965 birth year with Senator Magnus Abe, representing Rivers South-East. Governor Nyesom Wike, born in December 1967, is three years older than Mr. Dakuku Adolphus Peterside, the Director General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), a former gubernatorial candidate and Amaechi’s right-hand man. The four are political contemporaries, boys groomed by the third governor of Rivers State, Dr. Peter Odili. Since Odili left the political stage, thanks to President Olusegun Obasanjo betrayal, they have remained the four dominant figures in Rivers State politics. It is to their credit that the Treasure Base of the Nation is now more or less a war zone. And it may yet get much worse. Odili became governor with the return of democracy in 1999. That same year, Amaechi, with Odili’s influence, was elected into the Rivers State House of Assembly. He would later become Speaker. The relationship between the duo as heads of the executive and legislative arms of government respectively, was, for the most part, cordial. Until the run-up to 2007 general election when Odili backed Celestine Omehia to succeed him and Amaechi fought, and later became governor through a Supreme decision. The rest is history. Both men started out much earlier nonetheless. Having served as Secretary of the now defunct National Republican Convention in his native Ikwerre Local Government Area, Amaechi was picked up by Odili. Between 1992 and 1994, he was Special Assistant to Odili who at the time, was deputy governor. It was at this point that the nurturing began. The state Assembly presided over by Amaechi had Senator Magnus Abe as Minority Leader. He, like Amaechi, had been elected into the House in 1999. After the tenure ended in 2003, Abe was appointed as Commissioner of Information by Odili. When Amaechi became governor in 2007, he made Abe Secretary to the State Government (SSG). From SSG, he ran for Senate in 2011, assisted by the governor, and defeated Dr. Nomate Toate Kpea of the Action Congress of Nigeria to go to the Senate. But the duo have transmuted from best of friends to bitter political rivals, one whose impact is being felt across the nation. We shall return to it. Before Amaechi and Abe, it was, and still is, Amaechi and the current governor, Nyesom Wike, who it was that held the forte for Amaechi during the struggle to reclaim his mandate. Amaechi had fled the country allegedly fearing threat to his life. But the duo has not always been enemies. In fact, their fall out only happened when Amaechi, in pursuit of vice presidential ambition, ditched Goodluck Jonathan and subsequently joined the APC. While Odili was governor in 1999, and Amaechi was Speaker, and Abe was Minority Leader, Wike was Chairman of Obio-Akpor Local Government Area, the most powerful chairman in the state. A position he held until 2007 when Amaechi, as governor, appointed him Chief of Staff. Thus, while Amaechi was governor, Abe was SSG and Wike was Chief of Staff. From serving Amaechi, Wike was appointed Minister of State for Education in 2011 by the Jonathan government and positioned him to succeed Amaechi once he fell out with Jonathan. Peterside, on the other hand, started out as Special Assistant to Governor Odili on Youths and Students Affairs in 1999, a post he held until 2002. Between 2002 and 2003, he served as Chairman, Opobo–Nkoro LGA. And was subsequently Senior Special Assistant to Governor Odili on works between 2003 and 2005. When Amaechi came to power in 2007, he appointed him as Commissioner of Works. He served in that capacity until 2011 when he went to the House of Representatives. More than anyone else, these four individuals who can rightly be described as political siblings, have dominated Rivers State political space since their patron, Odili left the stage. But their struggle for control has led to the most brutal political wars of any state in Nigeria. It is siblings’ rivalry gone way too far. Good a thing perhaps, Amaechi and Peterside who he fronts to govern the state, have remained good friends over the years. But this friendship is one major reason the state is presently a battleground of three political camps. Amaechi, with federal might, is bent on imposing his will. He most likely still wants Peterside as governor. Abe has is eyes on the governorship seat too. But Amaechi prefers Peterside. Wike, on the other hand, defeated Peterside to become governor in 2015. His relationship with Amaechi had since gone awry and has led to brutal confrontations. He is poised to retain his seat. These three divergent interests have so often collided with dire consequences. The ward congress of the All Progressive Congress (APC) was marred by a crisis in a number of states. In Anambra, Minister of Labour and Productivity was saved from lynch mob by a team of security agencies who whisked him away. In Delta, it turned into a fracas, at the end of which a local government chairmanship aspirant was brutally stabbed to death. In Oyo and Imo, the stories are similar: violence, allegations and counter allegations. And in most APC states: Kano, Kogi, Kaduna and so on, a crisis is brewing. But in all, none is yet as intense as Rivers. On Friday 4th May, a day before the Saturday ward congresses, Rivers witnessed what many have described as a brutal assault on democracy. A gang of political thugs alleged to have been sent by Amaechi, invaded the Rivers State judicial complex and practically unleashed mayhem. Windows were smashed, structures damaged, cars destroyed, shops looted, bullets rattled the air and judges scampered to safety. Governor Wike described it as a coup aimed at toppling his administration. “I don’t want to trivialize the matter and say it is APC supporters only,” Wike said while inspecting damages on the complex. “No, it is not. This is a complete coup by the Nigerian police and the APC to see that they overthrow the government of Rivers State. “I have said it before; I thank God that we have been vindicated.” On the day, the Abe APC faction had gone to court to get an injection to stop the congress from taking place over certain unresolved issues. Amaechi had, of course, taken over the party structure, and was poised to have his men as officials of the party, a prospect that meant that Abe would lose out. He proceeded to court to stop the Congress and Amaechi allegedly sent his thugs and the police to stop proceedings. On Saturday, Amaechi’s people proceeded with the congresses. But Abe insists none took place. Addressing a press conference after the Friday fracas, the senator accused Amaechi of disregarding an agreement the South-South APC caucus reached to the effect that certain modalities be put in place to build confidence in the system before the party proceeded to the congresses. Following the disregard, he said, his group went to court on the advice of the party’s legal adviser. The court would eventually fix ruling for Friday, May 4. The same day the incident happened. According to Senator Abe, the next action Amaechi and his group took was to circulate fliers indicating that the legal adviser had been suspended. He said when this move failed, another “bizarre decision was taken by the same faction of the APC to blockade the judicial complex in Rivers State and physically prevent the court from giving its ruling.” He accused the Amaechi of mobilising physical force and arms to shut down the judicial complex housing over 45 courts, including the Chief Judge’s court. Later in a statement by his spokesperson, Parry Benson, Abe maintained that no congress was held in the state on Saturday, May 5th and that the leadership of the party in the state acted in breach of set guidelines. “The leadership of APC in Rivers State acted against the guidelines for the party’s congresses which he said the purchase of nomination forms should end 24 hours before the commencement of the congresses,” he said. “The development is a fight against internal democracy in the APC. We call on the national leadership of the party to intervene to save the party’s internal democracy. “Our worry is that some leaders of the party deliberately want to obstruct the ward, local government, and state congresses. We are appealing to the national leadership to do what is right to ensure a free, fair, peaceful and credible Congress in Rivers State.” But of course, Amaechi’s group say they held successful ward congresses. Speaking on Channels, Senator Andrew Uchendu, representing Rivers East, accused supporters of Abe of trying to stop the Congress by using thugs to invade the party secretariat. “The ward congress held freely, successfully and peacefully in Rivers State,” Uchendu said. “Election is a process. People were asked to buy their nomination forms. They had to go to the banks on Friday to get it. But before Saturday, a group of supporters of Senator Magnus Abe had invaded the party secretariat for no justifiable reason.” Apparently, the rift is all about who gets the party’s ticket in 2019. Indeed, the problem between Amaechi and Abe started when, according to Abe, Amaechi visited him in Abuja to warn him not to “dare” to run for governor. A former member of the Rivers State House of Assembly, Chidi Lloyd accuses Abe of causing the rift with his governorship ambition. “The core (of the crisis) is that we have a man who has an inordinate ambition. That it is either him or the party must be destroyed,” Lloyd said. In reality, however, the fact looks more like Amaechi doing all he can to ensure that the senator does not stand a chance of getting the party’s nomination. As a result, Rivers has virtually become a battleground. Yet, this is only a party affair. With the coming election in 2019 when all will be at stake, what is being witnessed now may be child’s play. Yesterday’s boys of Governor Odili have become today’s men, and they appear prepared to set Rivers ablaze.  