 By OBINNA EZUGWU Governorship aspirant in Imo State under the platform of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Hon Uche Onyeagucha, has condemned what he called ‘clandestine moves’ by Governor Rochas Okorocha to join the party while applauding its leadership for rejecting the governor’s N3billion cash inducement The aspirant who made his position known in a statement signed by his chief press secretary, MacDonald Enwere, and made available by his campaign organisation on Saturday, said he was are aware that since last week, Governor Okorocha who, according to him, was humiliated in the ward congresses of his party, the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) by the “allied forces” within the party in the state, has been making surreptitious moves through the leadership of the party to defect to APGA to enable him to perpetuate his third term agenda. “We have stated this severally that Governor Okorocha is in a self-succeeding mission to rule the state to perpetuity to enable him to continue to loot the state dry. Now, we have been vindicated,” the statement said. “This battle for survival and last-minute scheming of Governor Okorocha to join APGA has indeed confirmed the level of his desperation towards making his son-in-law the next Governor of the state.” He recalled that Okorocha rose to political prominence through APGA, but abandoned the party to pursue “egocentric” interest, warning that any party that accepts him was risking failure. “This is a man who rose to the political limelight as governor of the state through the platform of APGA and later dumps the party for his egocentric interest. Today, Governor Okorocha is approaching the same party he dumped and had on several occasions described as a social club and NGO that has no capacity to win elections. “Also, it was the same Governor Okorocha who had on several occasions admonished Imolites not to identify with any party that is not at the centre. Today, he is turning back negotiating to join the same party he said has no capacity of winning elections. Such a chameleonic lifestyle is highly repulsive. “Yes, we understand his present predicament as a confused politician who is now at a crossroad of his end-time adventurous voyage, but we can only sympathize with him on his journey to early political retirement. “No political party will ever admit Governor Okorocha because his presence will bring a colossal failure to the party. Before contemplating joining APGA, he should first apologize to Imolites for the atrocities he has committed against the people of the state.” Onyeagocha advised the governor to remain in his party, the APC and continue to search for the alleged missing result sheets of the ward congresses. “Who knows, he may find the Result sheet and bounces back as a political Maradona he claims he is. This is our candid advice.”